source: https://www.who.int/data/gho/data/indicators/indicator-details/GHO/girls-aged-15-years-old-that-received-the-recommended-doses-of-hpv-vaccine

Indicator name:
HPV immunization coverage estimates among primary target cohort (9-14 years old girls) (%)
Short name:
HPV vaccination programme coverage
Topic:
Health service coverage
Rationale:
Immunization is an essential component for reducing under-five mortality. Immunization coverage estimates are used to monitor coverage of immunization services and to guide disease eradication and elimination efforts. It is a good indicator of health system performance.
Definition:
The percentage of target population (girls) who have received the recommended doses of HPV vaccine in a given year. The vaccination coverage according to the national schedule and the programme’s eligibility criteria for each calendar year.
Method of measurement
Service/facility reporting system ("administrative data"): Reports of vaccinations performed by service providers (e.g. district health centres, vaccination teams, physicians) are used for estimates based on service/facility records. The estimate of immunization coverage is derived by dividing the total number of vaccinations given by the number of girls in the target population, often based on census projections. Household surveys (infrequently used for HPV vaccines): Survey items correspond to girls history in coverage surveys. The principle types of surveys are the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) cluster survey, the UNICEF Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), and the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). The indicator is estimated as the percentage of girls (age group varies across surveys) who received recommended doses of HPV vaccine at any time before the survey.
Method of estimation:
The methodology for HPV vaccine coverage estimates was developed by WHO in 2009 . Since 2010 the WHO/UNICEF Joint Reporting Form collects data on HPV vaccine schedule and doses delivered to females by actual age from 9 to 14 and 15+ year old in order to start calculating coverage measures. Starting 2019 also doses delivered to males, as well as official denominators and coverage estimates are included in the Joint Reporting Form. A cumulative, cohort method to track trends and compare between countries through an indicator of coverage by 15 years of age was identified. In 2018, a further consultation on the topic of HPV coverage measurement identified the need for an additional coverage measure to assess the coverage by schedule in a calendar year. Based on the consensus, a second indicator, called programme performance was established that captured the performance of the programme in the previous calendar year. Both indicators take into account the doses delivered to girls who started the first dose between 9 and 14 years of age and are disaggregated for first and completed dose to account for changes over time in the number of doses in the HPV vaccination schedules. To establish denominators, the methodology uses as a default the UN Population Division county estimates. To deal with the different ways countries set and change eligibility criteria over time, a normalization process is used to translate eligibility into denominators. This includes translating school grade eligibility in population cohorts and dealing with multiple cohort eligibility (changes) over time. The WHO methodology to establish HPV vaccine coverage estimates has been reviewed by the Immunization and Vaccine related Implementation Research Advisory Committee (‎IVIR-AC)‎ in March 2019 (https://www.who.int/immunization/research/committees/Meeting_report_IVIR_AC_March2019.pdf (2)) A journal article to describe the final methodology in detail is under preparation
Method of estimation of global and regional aggregates:
Global and regional coverage is a weighted sum of WHO/UNICEF estimates of national coverage by 15 years old girls from the United Nations Population Division's World Population Prospects..
Preferred data sources:
WHO-UNICEF Joint Reporting Form
Comments:
The quality of the estimates are determined by the quality and availability of empirical data. Vaccination is relatively easy to measure and two methods - facility reports and surveys - have been developed, each of which, when properly designed and implemented, provides accurate and reliable direct measures of coverage levels. When both are available, they provide a validation of coverage levels. However, both methods are subject to biases. In addition since HPV vaccines have often been introduced recently, survey results are limited.. WHO and UNICEF are working closely with countries to improve the quality and usefulness of coverage monitoring data systems.
IMRID:
5560 